All right since I started recording this
course, a new version of Circle CI has
come out, and setting up this project
here for the MySQL version of the
recipe application. I want to continue
using Circle CI so we have our test
running, and we get continuous
integration bills cooking. And now
they made a couple of changes, actually a
lot of nice changes between 1.0 and 2.0.
But the most notable now is they want
you to have a configure YAML file in a
hidden directory called .circleci. So
when you start a directory with dot,
it is typically a hidden directory. In
case you didn't know that about Linux
and UNIX operating systems. So you do
have several different things here. It's
pretty easy to set up. So if we had a
Gradle project we could easily change it
but we do have a Maven project right now
and so we can see that we have this
configuration file it is YAML and
it's pretty straightforward. You look at
the steps here. It does a check out. It
restores a cache of dependencies and
then it runs Maven dependencies off the
line and saves it so and then also last
up of course is to run the Maven
integration test face which will include
our unit tests. So we'll get a full
test and obviously this is something
that we could customize. Our project is
pretty simple, so I don't see a need to
customize it right now. But what I've
done here is I've got that file now
copied over into our project. So I set up
the .circleci directory and here's
our config.yml. I'm going to go ahead
and commit this now. I am on the
branch master. So I'm going to merge this
into the other branches as we go forward.
So let's go ahead and actually I can do
it from right here. I'm going to go
ahead and commit and push that.
Push that up there and we see that
we're almost done there alright.
We're successful now. Let's jump over here and
now I'm just going to click on start
building. And this is going to tell Circle
CI to go and initialize builds and start
watching that directory. So now if I come
back over here to projects, for some
reason that project it's not there yet.
Let's see if there's build. That is not
there, so let's go through this one more
time, spring my recipe with some reason
that it's not there and click on start
building again. There we go. We didn't see
that before. So now this is going to go out
and build I'm going to pause this so we
don't have to wait for everything to
cook through but we can see that a
Circle CI build is kicking off, and it
does take a few minutes to build. But for
a free CI build server, I don't think we
have a lot to complain about as far as
performance go. So I'm going to pause
this video and then we'll take a look at
the result of the build. Okay I've uh
resumed this recording here and we can see
that I now have a successful build. So it
went through pretty quick. Yeah ,we do
have some things in the queue there, so
it's probably other branches. But you can
see we have spin up environment, check
out code, restoring cache, and if you look
at these steps here, and jump over to
IntelliJ, they oddly look a lot like the
steps here in the YAML configuration.
So this is a obviously I'm not touching
on a lot of the capabilities the Circle
CI. We do have a pretty simple
project here so not a lot of
complexity, but Java projects with Maven
are pretty vanilla sometimes, and
that's definitely what we have here. But
now going forward, every check-in on
every branch in this repository is going
to get built automatically by Circle CI.
So if you're not using Circle CI for
your projects, I highly recommend it. It
is a best practice and the best part
about Circle CI, it's completely free for
you, so you have nothing to lose from
using Circle CI in your own personal
builds.